# PositiveSentinelLymphNode

## ABSTRACT
*PURPOSE*: Based on recent advances in the management of sentinel node (SN) positive melanoma patients, we aimed to develop prediction models for recurrence, distant metastasis (DM) and overall mortality (OM).
*METHODS*: The derivation cohort consisted of 1080 SN-positive melanoma patients from nine EORTC-centres. Prognostic factors for recurrence, DM and OM were studied with Cox regression analysis. Significant factors were incorporated in the models. Performance was assessed by discrimination (c-index) and calibration in cross-validation across centres. The models were externally validated  using a prospective cohort consisting of 705 German SN-positive patients; 473 DeCOG-SLT trial participants and 232 screened patients. A nomogram was developed for graphical presentation.
*RESULTS*: The final model for recurrence and the calibrated models for DM and OM included ulceration, age, SN tumour burden and Breslow thickness. The models showed reasonable calibration. The c-index for the recurrence, DM and OM model was 0.68, 0.70 and 0.70 respectively, and 0.70, 0.72 and 0.74 respectively in external validation. The EORTC-DeCOG model identified a robust low risk group, with all identified low risk patients  (approximately 7% of the entire population) having a 5-year recurrence probability of <25% and an overall 5-year recurrence probability of 13%. A model including information on completion lymph node dissection (CLND) showed only marginal improvement in model performance. 
*CONCLUSIONS*: The EORTC-DeCOG nomogram provides an adequate prognostic-tool for patients with SN-positive melanoma, without the need for CLND. It showed consistent results across validation. The nomogram could be used for patient counselling and might aid in adjuvant therapy decision-making.
